So the goal is to change the style of this card depending on which screen we have,
I actually want adjust both the image here,
so from a height perspective, how high this image is
but also the overall card from a width perspective.
So back in our application, I can simply dive into the CSS file and there, into the feed.css
file
which is the file getting loaded on that index.html file in the public folder, which is responsible
for rendering the feed.
Now if we have a look at the index.html file, there we actually append our cards to the shared
moments area.
We do this in the
feed.js file
and here we actually see that we use the shared moment card class,
we add this to every card we add to the DOM. So we can start by styling the shared moment card. Back in
feed.css, we actually see it is already getting styled because we add a margin.
Now let's also add a width, the card already has a default width applied by the modal lite library
but we can overwrite this,
so let's maybe set the width to 400 pixels here.
Let's save this and let's reload and we won't see a change.
This is a little gotcha
I showed you earlier,
if you changed one of your files which are getting precached, you also have to make sure that you update
the cache in your service worker.
So bump up that static version number, reload and then simply close the tab and reopen it to activate the
new service worker
and now you see we have a broader image.
Now it's always 400 pixels and that of course becomes an issue on smaller devices.
If I open my mobile device here, you see it's now stretching across the boundaries,
so that's not really how I want it.
Now there are two ways of fixing this,
one is that we use a percentage value
and I'm going to not change this here,
I'll do this later once we decided what to do.
I'll work in the elements tab here instead
so that I don't have to reload and change the service worker all the time.
So on this class here, this is the style we just attached, the width here.
Now we can actually also change this to a percentage value, like 33%.
The good thing is that this now will scale dynamically, it's never more than that,
of course this can still look strange though because whilst on big screens,
this looks relatively fine, on small screens,
well this is totally squeezed, not really what I want.
So percentage values can be a great tool but that can also lead to effect like this one,
so this is probably not the solution we want here or at least not the solution
I want to implement here. Instead, I'll go with a default width which works great on mobile devices too.
Now if we inspect the mobile device like the iPhone, we see that we have a width of 375 pixels and there
are even devices which are smaller than that.
So to make it look good on there, I will choose a width of 270 pixels,
this should look good on most mobile devices.
Now we won't see it here so I'll update it here for now so that we can see it here too.
If we now go into mobile mode,
this looks good
and if we switch to an older iPhone 4, this still looks OK.
So this is now a good width.
Of course we still have the issue that on bigger screens,
this looks suboptimal,
so let's add a media query.
I will add a media query by using @media, this is a CSS command which allows us to simply write
a conditional CSS statement so to say and the condition goes between the parentheses.
Now we mostly work with min-width or height or max-width or height there,
so I will go with min-width, this enforces a mobile first layout because my default style which is
not checked with any media query is the style that works on mobile,
mobile first. I then check if we have more space,
so maybe if we have 600 pixels at least, we can go up to set the width to 400 pixels so that the card
is much wider and of course it makes sense to first of all copy that style
and now set the width to 400 pixels. So inside of that media query, we just add our selectors and their styles and
we can of course add multiple selectors, as many as you want,
now here I just reuse that and now this width will overwrite this width if this condition is true.
Side note, the margin here will not be overwritten with nothing,
so we only overwrite what we have set up here,
the other properties will be taken from the default setup.
So now with width 400 in this case here, let's see how that looks like.
Now for that, I will bump up that version number again
and I will reload the application, close it and open it in a new tab
and now we see it's wider on bigger devices
and if we shrink this though, it also shrinks.
So this is something which already shows us how we can use media queries to get the design we want.
Now of course, we could mix media queries with percentages,
we could say that on smaller devices we want a width of 80%,
so let me comment out the old width and on bigger devices,
we want to go to let's say 50%
and if we have an even bigger device, let's say we have or maybe go to 60% here and on even bigger
devices here, let's say from 1000 pixels on, we shrink that to 45%, something like that.
Now again let me set this version number
and let's go back, reload and simply open it in a new tab and of course, you could always go to applications
and clear your storage to not have to open this new tab.
Now you see on bigger screens, it's pretty wide,
then as we shrink this, we have this tiny point where it snaps to a different size here,
so there it gets wider again
and on smaller devices, we also stay at 80%.
So that's another option, you can use percentages combined with media queries and this is generally how
you can control the width or in general, the styles of your elements with CSS with media queries.
Now we cannot only control the width here, we can also control the image height. Now right now I'm setting
the height here in the feed.js for the background image, for the card title, I'm setting height to 180 pixels.
Now I'm going to remove this and go back to feed.css, I want to set this here,
so the class we're looking for is mdl-card_title.
Now I will use this class and I only want to use it on my own cards which will have the shared moment
card class. In there if I find a nested modal card title and make sure that you have a whitespace between
the two selectors here so that it's a nested selector,
here I want to set the height to let's say 100 pixels or maybe 120 pixels by default so that it's
not that big on smaller devices
but then I want to copy my media queries here and also adjust the height but now I'll check the height
I have available. If we have a minimum height of let's say 800 pixels available,
I want to set the height of this element here
and of course for that I should copy the selector, replace the old one,
I want to set the height here to let's say 160 pixels
and if we have a min-height of 1200 pixels available,
well maybe I then want to copy that and set the height to 200,
we'll have to play around with that.
Now let's go back and let's bump this up to
version 22
and of course as always, you can just clear the storage, I'll reopen the tab here to mix it up.
Now you see we have a new height here,
if we inspect this, we see the height is now 120 and this would change if we have a device where we have
more height available.
So maybe if I change this to responsive and I increase this, so let's see what's the next breakpoint,
800 pixels, there it should get a bit higher,
now you see here that the image gets bigger and it gets even bigger if I reach 1200 which I unfortunately
can't here.
Now of course we can fine tune because here we really have to have a huge device to increase this in
size,
so maybe we start at 140,
we change it at 700 to 160 and we change it at 1000 to 200, something like that.
So this is how we can set up a responsive design here,
again make sure that you not set it here in your Javascript code but only in CSS now.
These are media queries
and obviously as with all these CSS things, you can dive much deeper,
this is not a CSS course though. It's important to be aware of these tools though, media queries are one
of the core building blocks of creating a reusable and flexible responsive design which looks great
on all devices.